 But employers and employees must do their part, as well, as they are 
    If you go back to the beginning of this country, the great strength 
    It has fallen to every generation since then to preserve that idea, 
this issue, studying it. And she and I are going to convene a White 
    We all gain when we give, and we reap what we sow. That's at the 
    Corporal Gregory Depestre went to Haiti as part of his adopted 
today is the smallest it has been in 30 years, and it's getting smaller 
out of our negotiations. I have learned a lot about the way both 
keep their health insurance coverage for a year while they look for 
work. And we can find a way--it may take some time, but we can find a 
Congressional Medal of Honor. All these years later, yesterday, here's 
know about the Gulf war. This treaty has been bipartisan from the 
every American deserves quality care.
the Vice President for his leadership and the Congress for its support 
Republicans and Democrats view the debate before us. I have learned a 
changes in teaching to make, and which schools need to improve. They can 
Criminal gang members and drug dealers are destroying the lives of 
    This balanced budget includes the largest antidrug effort ever, to 
a constitutional amendment; we need action.
information in very negative and aggressive ways that are hardly 
    All strong families begin with taking more responsibility for our 
Seattle, 32 percent. But we still have a long way to go before our 
of cyberspace. Think of this: The first time I made a State of the Union 
views.
should pass a GI bill for America's workers. We propose to collapse 
important it is for parents to begin immediately talking, singing, even 
acting to prevent nuclear materials from falling into the wrong hands 
    Community policing also requires bonds of trust between citizens and 
smarter with crime, to help to lower that rate first. Well, if there 
should pass a GI bill for America's workers. We propose to collapse 
agencies to target gangs that involve juveniles and violent crime, and 
allies in Asia and Europe and new partners from Africa to India and 
foothold in the heavens, the international space station. With its vast 
make it and to make the most of their lives and their God-given 
can be proud of the fact that our country was rated as having the 
foothold for freedom, and at the age of 17, just a year older than his 
education. Now we must make our public elementary and secondary schools 
reconstruction and reconciliation to accelerate. Tonight I ask Congress 
different times: to Lincoln and to his Congress to preserve the Union 
have fought bravely in all our conflicts since: I salute your service 
in Little Rock to watch my daughter's league, and people would come up 
efforts to support the arts and humanities, I believe we should stand by 
    Rarely have Americans lived through so much change in so many ways 
engage in other appropriate sporting activities. I've done it since I 
the very first time, an undivided, democratic Europe. When Europe is 
reduce the role of special interests, create a level playing field 
lot about the good ideas that each side has that we could all embrace.
and come back and support me if my grandparents hadn't been able to take 
corps, AmeriCorps. It passed with strong bipartisan support. And now 
give every American who works hard the chance to go to college.
fought in World War II, and to all others on both sides of the aisle who 
    I call on Congress to pass the requirement for a V-chip in TV sets 
    Balancing the budget requires only your vote and my signature. It 
values and our soaring spirit. So instead of cutting back on our modest 
must never return; in the Middle East, where Arabs and Jews who once 
    Our leadership in the world is also strong, bringing hope for new 
businesses that provide child care for their employees; and a larger 
For the past 5 years, we have worked to bring the spark of private 
opportunity and citizens honor the responsibility to give something back 
Kentucky. She gains when she gives. She's a mother of four. She says 
and tolerance in Bosnia. Thank you very much, Sergeant, for what you 
out a common identity. We see it today in the United States military, in 
keep bringing the deficit down, to expand markets, to support their 
trade, more of our workers will lose their jobs and have to start over. 
challenge you to have honest hearings on this, to get together, to find 
you.
Zion Church in Temple Hills, Maryland. I'd like to ask them to stand. I 
Government's 10,000-page personnel manual.
be able to reduce class size in the first, second, and third grades to 
    For years, Congress concealed in the budget scores of pet spending 
want to tell you about them. In the early eighties, they left Government 
    Even as we explore this inner space in the new millennium, we're 
technology and transportation, to prepare our people for the new 
American people, these are good times for America. We have more than 14 
without worrying about what is happening to their children.
wiser, more than all of the changes we can make in Government and in the 
    Now, if we balance the budget for next year, it is projected that 
criticized the old welfare system, you can't blame that old system 
their God-given talents and determination can take them and to give 
in protecting the environment, and we have to make it easier for them to 
Government workers, working hand in hand with private business, rebuilt 
countries are our customers. If they sink into recession, they won't be 
hallowed Chamber 2 years ago on a mission, to restore the American dream 
welfare the chance to move into the work force. I applaud the work of 
one another as Americans.
the pride they evidenced in what they were doing. They knew what 
meet these challenges together, as one America?
    Fifty years ago, a farsighted America led in creating the 
our coastal waters for our children. [Applause] Thank you.
here at home and abroad. We must not ask Government to do what we should 
the First Lady that represent what I'm trying to talk about--citizens. I 
1,000 times faster than today, to develop new medical treatments, new 
underclass, even as we do everything we can to support the millions of 
    I know the Members of this Congress are concerned about crime, as 
believe some basic things. Do you believe we can expand the economy 
make the American dream of opportunity for all a reality for all 
do now to build a new century.
this effort I am frank to say that I have made my mistakes, and I have 
there are in the country today, so that parents will have even more 
information age, unimagined new work, life-enhancing technology, all 
child born tonight will have almost no memory of the 20th century. 
    America is once again the world's strongest economic power: almost 6 
learned again the importance of humility in all human endeavor. But I am 
world's economies, including ours, making that negative impact as small 
here, another 1.1 million Americans in working families have lost their 
declining, we are winning back our optimism, the enduring faith that we 
    We must speed the remarkable advances in medical science. The human 
strengthened America with their hard work, family values, and good 
that remains. Together with South Korea, we must advance peace talks 
challenge as great as any in our peacetime history and a plan of action 
Democrats, when I say to Saddam Hussein, ``You cannot defy the will of 
for grassroots reform, and to hold them accountable for results. That's 
foothold in the heavens, the international space station. With its vast 
distinguished guests, and my fellow Americans. I think I should start by 
year 2000 a national celebration of the American spirit in every 
    My duty tonight is to report on the state of the Union, not the 
already saved taxpayers $63 billion. The age of the $500 hammer and the 
can read independently by the end of the third grade. We will use 
should say to all the people we're trying to represent here that 
    And we must join together to do something else, too, something both 
allowed to write their own loopholes into bills to weaken laws that 
downsizing of our forces after the cold war with remarkable skill and 
right to know about the toxins that threaten their children. Just 
epidemic of teen pregnancies and births where there is no marriage. I 
it takes a lot of people to help all the kids in trouble stay off the 
loan form from an inch thick to a single page. We've thrown away the 
measure up, and we should challenge more of our finest young people to 
our fundamental values. The crime rate, the welfare and food stamp 
verse when I took the oath of office, on behalf of all Americans, for no 
fell even further and further behind in the years afterward, no matter 
Peace Corps, working all over this country, helping people person-to-
    These initiatives are right for America, and we should keep them 
second in math. Two of them, Kristen Tanner and Chris Getsler, are here 
can accommodate every point on the planet, every different opinion. But 
failure, together we ended the old welfare system. And we're now 
replacing welfare checks with paychecks.
Isaiah 58:12. Here's what it says: ``Thou shalt raise up the foundations 
around the world, and especially those helping peace take root in Bosnia 
make real which we could never have done on our own. We Americans have 
Yellowstone, the Everglades, Lake Tahoe. We expanded every community's 
people?
cleanup of polluted sites for development. Under the continued 
you're out,'' almost 60 new capital punishment offenses, more prisons, 
inflation in 25 years. Our businesses are more productive. And here we 
it. We've got 4 more hard years of work to do to do that.
    There have always been things we could do together, dreams we could 
you know a child from a poor family, tell her not to give up; she can go 
    We've got to have a Government that can be a real partner in making 
world-class standards our children must meet for the new era. And those 
young Americans work their way through college by the year 2000, to 
about this: The entire store of human knowledge now doubles every 5 
70 percent, toxic emissions from factories cut in half. Lake Erie was 
With new pressures on people in the way they work and live, I believe we 
a year of college tuition tax deductible. It's a good idea for America.
land: Let me begin tonight by saying to our men and women in uniform 
We'll start by conducting nonpartisan forums in every region of the 
of the Internet. We can do the kinds of things that we need to do and 
Peace Corps, working all over this country, helping people person-to-
country, and I hope that lawmakers of both parties will participate. 
and drugs, and bar violent juveniles from buying guns for life. And I 
hard to tear down trade barriers abroad so that we can create good jobs 
causes Parkinson's Disease--in only 9 days. Within a decade, ``gene 
to get an education and to rebuild their own communities.
causes Parkinson's Disease--in only 9 days. Within a decade, ``gene 
contained communism and kept America and Europe secure. Now these three 
those teachers. I know that I wouldn't be here. For years, many of our 
Government in 35 years, but a more progressive one. We have a smaller 
    Now we must act to expand our exports, especially to Asia and Latin 
balanced budget will extend health coverage to up to 5 million of those 
trying to live on it. I challenge you to raise their minimum wage.
Do we need common sense and fairness in our regulations? You bet we do. 
on domestic spending, cutting 60 public housing programs down to 3, 
chips'' will offer a roadmap for prevention of illnesses throughout a 
so because their parents lose or change a job, my budget will also 
    Our communities are only as healthy as the air our children breathe, 
to all Americans. To do that, I propose America's HOPE scholarship, 
sector, and I was proud to sign it yesterday. But we have a lot more to 
welfare revolution. There are millions like her all across America. And 
welfare to work. This expanded earned-income tax credit is now worth 
children the difference between right and wrong and to encourage them to 
you for it.
enact a comprehensive nuclear test ban, and to eliminate chemical 
sick.
for working families with children. That's one of the things most of us 
under $27,000, a tax cut that this year will average about $1,000 a 
to keep on learning for a lifetime.
result. Let this Congress be remembered as the Congress that saved their 
working together as a community, as a team, as one America, with all of 
President Truman's call. Together, they made the commitments that 
their own pension plans. That is something we should all agree on.
land: Let me begin tonight by saying to our men and women in uniform 
down the deficit we inherited, and we had to get economic growth up. Now 
comes.
citizens are doing in America. We need more of it, and it ought to be 
who have a duty to support their own children. I also want to thank 
our responsibility, indeed, our moral obligation, to make sure that 
anymore. But a lot of people laid down their seats in Congress so that 
century research fund for path-breaking scientific inquiry, the largest 
have sent to Congress a plan to target schools all over this country 
legally and working hard, and I hope you will finish that job this year.
Kristen Zarfos, a Connecticut surgeon whose outrage at this practice 
forced to pay. We should suspend drivers' license, track them across 
People like the D.A.R.E. officers are making a real impression on grade 
last 50 years. And so it can be for another 50 years. But a shortsighted 
interest, and we can explain it to the American people because we're 
budget in a way that is fair to all Americans. There is now broad 
    On behalf of all Americans, especially those who need their Social 
their own lives. The spotlight should shine on those who make the right 
eliminated hundreds of programs, and improved the operations of 
to choose leadership over escapism at the start of the cold war. If 
years, we cleaned up 250 toxic waste sites, as many as in the previous 
    And even as we enact savings in these programs, we must have a 
go. We have to cut yesterday's Government to help solve tomorrow's 
at its best. It's good for the AmeriCorps members, but it's good for the 
immigrants, from every continent, who come here to work for their own 
we should. But we can bring it down in a way that still protects our 
ready.
    Finally, we must also protect our children by standing firm in our 
a half a pack over the next 10 years, with penalties on the tobacco 
    I also ask this Congress to support our efforts to enlist colleges 
a half a pack over the next 10 years, with penalties on the tobacco 
endanger their lives.
times. He saved the lives of three women. He's here with us this 
agreed to stabilize the Medicare Trust Fund. But we must not abandon our 
you, the people who are trapped on it know it doesn't work; they also 
    The last person I want to introduce is Jack Lucas from Hattiesburg, 
smoking down. Let's raise the price of cigarettes by up to a dollar and 
world. On the eve of a new century, we have the power and the duty to 
that they, if they're laid off or if they're working for a very low 
bill of rights that says this: You have the right to know all your 
    Now, we stand at another moment of change and choice and another 
own lives.
    More police and punishment are important, but they're not enough. We 
services does not decline.
the field. And I challenge the private sector tonight to start by 
old and enduring values as we move into the future? And third, how do we 
young Americans work their way through college by the year 2000, to 
stopped at the water's edge. Now I ask you and I ask all our Nation's Governors; I ask 
opportunity. Let this Congress be the Congress that finally balances the 
country in Vietnam. And he went on to serve Texas and America fighting 
sets the minimum wage. Within a year, the minimum wage will fall to a 
Administration for 22 years now. Last year he was hard at work in the 
another.
another.
    I hope to goodness before I finish I can think of something to say 
    Our national service program, AmeriCorps, has already helped 70,000 
rearing, pension availability and protection, access to health care, 
success--providing child care, helping families move closer to available 
one of us has a role to play on this team.
roads that take them there can be paths to a better future. My ``GI 
    Now, looking ahead, the greatest step of all, the high threshold of 
law. To do otherwise is simply unworthy of a great nation of immigrants.
    The ``GI bill'' for workers, tax relief for education and child 
media corporations in the entertainment industry to come to the White 
dead, and now it's a thriving resource. But 10 million children under 12 
must work together, learn together, live together, serve together. On 
an average of 18 students a class, all across America.
parents to protect their children. And I invite the leaders of major 
their most important responsibilities. Two years ago we helped guarantee 
who came to this country legally, who work hard, pay taxes, and obey the 
that 60 college presidents have answered my call, pledging that 
nation in our own hemisphere but one, and its day, too, will come.
the Peace Corps, in AmeriCorps. Wherever people of all races and 
do just fine. With shared values and meaningful opportunities and honest 
protect the health and safety of our children. Some say that the 
competition and innovation that can make public schools better. We 
cooperation, not conflict. Let our progress there not mask the peril 
agreed to stabilize the Medicare Trust Fund. But we must not abandon our 
down but to lift them up. Good tests will show us who needs help, what 
preparing for a far-off storm that may reach our shores is far wiser 
tonight, along with their teacher Sue Winski. They're up there with the 
educators, led by North Carolina's Governor Jim Hunt and the National 
those teachers. I know that I wouldn't be here. For years, many of our 
schools that are literally falling down. With the student population at 
schools that are literally falling down. With the student population at 
interests and our ideals. An isolated China is not good for America; a 
Stand up, please. [Applause]
First Lady. And they prove that when we aim high and challenge our 
there are in the country today, so that parents will have even more 
tough pollution standards, do it, as long as you do it right. To 
citizens in nursing homes.
the world's best as well by raising standards, raising expectations, and 
    Our effort to connect every classroom is just the beginning. Now we 
clean drinking water laws; we protected some of America's rarest, most 
our fundamental differences like human rights.
school to junior high or junior high to high school until he or she is 
for their children. When parents control what their young children see, 
school is today. And my friends, that will change the face and future of 
party, to give you what is necessary to join in these decisions. We owe 
stop killing each other over designer jackets, then our public schools 
educators, led by North Carolina's Governor Jim Hunt and the National 
as these emerging economies forge new ties with other nations. That is 
an uncharted time.
and so do the American people.
opportunity not just at home but in all the markets of the world. We 
teach our children to be good citizens. And we must continue to promote 
these standards and train teachers to lift students up to them. To help 
century. Every State and school must shape the curriculum to reflect 
budget includes a new initiative, $5 billion to help communities finance 
Government standards but national standards, representing what all our 
already discovered genes for breast cancer and diabetes. I ask you to 
bill now pending in this Congress. It has bipartisan support, and I urge 
world's leader for peace.
bill now pending in this Congress. It has bipartisan support, and I urge 
to keep on learning for a lifetime.
old must be able to go to college; and every adult American must be able 
cancer and medication that stops a stroke in progress and begins to 
cancer and medication that stops a stroke in progress and begins to 
the future we must now cross, and my number one priority for the next 4 
old must be able to go to college; and every adult American must be able 
the future we must now cross, and my number one priority for the next 4 
family listening to us tonight: Your children can go on to college. If 
should be the world's very best peacemaker.
2 years of college, just as universal in America by the 21st century as 
    And I challenge local housing authorities and tenant associations: 
basic health and disability benefits when misfortune strikes immigrants 
Japan for the first time since the 1970's. And for 3 years in a row, we 
left with nowhere to turn. So I ask the Congress, let these hard-working 
first to join in a new national effort to marshal America's businesses, 
Power cannot compel it. Technology cannot create it. It can only come 
Sprint, Monsanto, UPS, Burger King, and United Airlines, will be the 
been entering into hundreds of new trade agreements, we've been creating 
compete. And finally, they are our strategic partners. Their stability 
    Tonight I am pleased to announce that five major corporations, 
of opportunity, deepening the meaning of our freedom, forging a more 
    Next, we must help parents protect their children from the gravest 
for you.
their children from inappropriate material on the Internet, but we also 
represent. Please stand up. [Applause]
    Last year I proposed and you passed 220,000 new Pell grant 
millions of new jobs.
    All strong families begin with taking more responsibility for our 
    Last year I proposed and you passed 220,000 new Pell grant 
for all of us. Our seventh challenge is really America's challenge to 
economically, their children do better as well.
remarkable job there for America, and America must do right by them.
over 25 years about the importance of families and children, a wonderful 
    Now we must act to meet a new goal: 2 million more people off the 
health care available to every American. And Congress should start by 
health care available to every American. And Congress should start by 
Medicaid, not just to the poor but to people in working families, 
our responsibility, indeed, our moral obligation, to make sure that 
peace. Now our troops and a strong NATO, together with our new partners 
anymore. We have torn it down. Now do your part. Give someone on welfare 
International Math and Science Study. That's a test that reflects the 
demanding that all able-bodied recipients assume the responsibility of 
Then last year, Congress enacted landmark welfare reform legislation, 
then, for the long-term health of our society, we must agree to a 
Then last year, Congress enacted landmark welfare reform legislation, 
have stronger families, we will have a stronger America.
criticized the old welfare system, you can't blame that old system 
know the delay will mean the death of reform. So let's set our own 
million new jobs, the lowest unemployment in 24 years, the lowest core 
world's leader for peace.
scholarships for deserving and needy students, and to make up to $10,000 
assault weapons out of the hands of violent gangs. I challenge the 
doing in so many of our finest companies, working together, putting the 
ourselves tonight, before the eyes of America, to finally enacting 
uncharted sea of limitless mystery and unlimited potential.
    I say to those who make and market cigarettes, every year a million 
determination to ban the advertising and marketing of cigarettes that 
and once again the proud face America shows the world.
by the Republican majority. And it should be part of any final budget 
economy, they must be able to buy health insurance policies that they do 
    The information age is, first and foremost, an education age, in 
welfare to work. This expanded earned-income tax credit is now worth 
taxes on money they save for college tuition. I ask you to pass it and 
and once again the proud face America shows the world.
industry if it keeps marketing to our children. Tomorrow, like every 
students must know to succeed in the knowledge economy of the 21st 
Republican and Democratic Members of Congress and already approved by 68 
never fail. That is the key to a more perfect Union. Our individual 
We agree on time limits, tough work requirements, and the toughest 
elections have become too expensive, fueling a fundraising arms race. 
their lives and give thanks for their service to our Nation.
a constitutional amendment; we need action.
force with or without us, we will lose the chance to have Americans 
easier to borrow and repay those loans, and we have dramatically cut the 
to work.
to work.
cripple our country in time of economic crisis and force unwanted 
Security. Whatever your view on that, we all must concede: We don't need 
cripple our country in time of economic crisis and force unwanted 
bipartisan foreign policy; because our future was at stake, politics 
we once took on the mob. I'm directing the FBI and other investigative 
troops when the current NATO mission ends in June. I think Senator Dole 
historic, bipartisan legislation to achieve a landmark for our 
    I also appeal to Congress to pass the line-item veto you promised 
Think of them: terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, 
balance the budget and build on the Vice President's efforts to make our 
officers. And to our police, I say, our children need you as role models 
to learn new skills. Most Americans live near a community college. The 
    Our fifth challenge: to leave our environment safe and clean for the 
negotiating authority necessary to open more new markets, create more 
will not substitute for a parent's love and guidance. And only you--only 
Bosnia's fragile peace still needs the support of American and allied 
treasures so that the generations of the 21st century can see for 
including children, people with disabilities, people with AIDS, senior 
We'll hold a White House conference on Social Security in December. And 
regulations, shifting more decisionmaking out of Washington, back to 
weapons modernization by the year 2000, and we must take good care of 
roads that take them there can be paths to a better future. My ``GI 
is responding to that challenge by forming an organization that will 
partnership, increasing child support collections from deadbeat parents 
address these threats today, we will suffer the consequences in all our 
food; the cafes were alive with conversation. The progress there is 
and community development banks, we're helping people to find jobs, to 
    But there are some areas that the Federal Government should not 
    And even as we enact savings in these programs, we must have a 
administration has taken a strong stand to stiffen the protection of our 
and keep the crime rate coming down.
Federal budget, a small fraction of what America invested in diplomacy 
you can make the decision to help raise your children. No matter who you 
Though they sat on opposite sides of the aisle, Representatives Walter 
borders. We are increasing border controls by 50 percent. We are 
you can make the decision to help raise your children. No matter who you 
    Now we must act to meet a new goal: 2 million more people off the 
ask you to dramatically expand our support for after-school programs. I 
long-term prosperity ahead of the short-term gain. As workers increase 
and harness the forces of technology and science; action to build 
communities like Detroit, where the unemployment rate has been cut in 
Trust Fund to 10 years, provides support for respite care for the many 
schoolchildren that will give them the strength to say no when the time 
Republicans and Democrats view the debate before us. I have learned a 
out of our negotiations. I have learned a lot about the way both 
about $1,800 a year to a family of four living on $20,000. The budget 
force where we must, by working with others to share the risk and the 
our responsibility, indeed, our moral obligation, to make sure that 
    The START II treaty with Russia will cut our nuclear stockpiles by 
    The START II treaty with Russia will cut our nuclear stockpiles by 
prosperity all across the world.
services does not decline.
moving from welfare to work. Now each and every one of us has to fulfill 
classroom and every library in the entire United States by the year 
Stars fighting for this country. Tonight I ask that he lead our Nation's 
for education, for child care, for the environment.
these are ours to seize. That is our honor and our challenge. We must be 
    The ``GI bill'' for workers, tax relief for education and child 
service and his extraordinary personal heroism. But Richard Dean's story 
International Math and Science Study. That's a test that reflects the 
and religious conflicts that fuel fanaticism and terror. We are the 
years. My plan to balance the budget next year includes both new 
    These cuts are real. They will require sacrifice from everyone. But 
down he continued helping Social Security recipients, but he was working 
Haiti, the dictators are gone, democracy has a new day, the flow of 
without pay.
enterprise to inner city and poor rural areas, with community 
    On behalf of all Americans, especially those who need their Social 
provide pensions for your employees. And I challenge Congress to pass a 
destiny together, one hand, one generation, one American connecting to 
    Now each of us must hold high the torch of citizenship in our own 
    Finally, it's long past time to make good on our debt to the United 
limit and show people America keeps its word.
They are our real champions.
    In 1993, Congress cut the taxes of 15 million hard-pressed working 
in Atlanta this summer, not because they are star athletes but because 
at home.
balance the budget.
    So here's my plan: Help families to pay for child care for a million 
language, know every country. People on every continent can look to us 
cars, energy-efficient homes.
years ahead of schedule.
classroom in America must be connected to the information superhighway, 
smaller Government must work in an old-fashioned American way, together 
connecting every children's hospital as soon as possible, so that a 
    And we must work together. The people of this Nation elected us all. 
there's a good reason--a good reason: The remaining Federal work force 
our goals can also share our burdens. In this new era, our freedom and 
budget and provide middle class tax relief to pay for education and 
in this Chamber, I hope, can agree on. I know it is strongly supported 
    A nation that lives as a community must value all its communities. 
common commitment to preserve the basic protections of Medicare and 
reduction. Lower interest rates have made it easier for businesses to 
Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea, and beyond.
should connect every hospital to the Internet, so that doctors can 
    I say again, the era of big Government is over. But we can't go back 
    Tonight I ask you to join me in launching a new clean water 
$10 billion and heading lower. For three decades, six Presidents have 
widow, would have been able to go away to school and get an education 
their homes, their schools, their churches, their synagogues, their 
$10 billion and heading lower. For three decades, six Presidents have 
every American to join their efforts.
child in bed can stay in touch with school, family, and friends. A sick 
    Lucius Wright and Jennifer Rodgers are special Americans. And I have 
with computers and good software and well-trained teachers. We are 
the honor to announce tonight that they are the very first of several 
thousand Americans who will be chosen to carry the Olympic torch on its 
honor the obligations of this great Nation as we have for 220 years, to 
threats, all these horrors have now begun to give way to the promise of 
thousand Americans who will be chosen to carry the Olympic torch on its 
that divides us, by our belief in progress, our love of liberty, and our 
verse when I took the oath of office, on behalf of all Americans, for no 
peace. Now our troops and a strong NATO, together with our new partners 
    Seventh, we cannot expect our children to raise themselves up in 
are not all those in our country who are working hard to do a good job 
the security of their families.
energy and determination you have brought to this task of balancing the 
40-year low in purchasing power. Four dollars and 25 cents an hour is no 
nations throughout the world to join us with renewed fervor in a global 
front lines of that effort. Tonight I am nominating him, a hero of the 
with stronger families, more educational opportunity, economic security, 
doesn't end there. This last November, he was forced out of his office 
    Tonight I am pleased to announce that a group of prominent Americans 
    There is a third piece of unfinished business. Over the last 4 
    I'd like to give you one example. His name is Richard Dean. He's a 
doesn't end there. This last November, he was forced out of his office 
days of life. Scientists are now discovering how young children develop 
    Over 200 years ago, our Founders changed the entire course of human 
security demands it. Americans fought three wars in Asia in this 
minority but a significant minority of the people on welfare trapped on 
days of life. Scientists are now discovering how young children develop 
best is yet to come if we all do our parts.
common commitment to preserve the basic protections of Medicare and 
desperate refugees to our shores has subsided. Through tougher trade 
comes.
years, we moved a record 2\1/4\ million people off the welfare rolls. 
refusal to be a worker or a student or a responsible parent. I just 
information to work with business to cut pollution. People do have a 
they are star citizens, community heroes meeting America's challenges. 
have proudly supported peace and prosperity and freedom from South 
honor the obligations of this great Nation as we have for 220 years, to 
every high school in the United States, to expand Pell Grant 
    I also appeal to Congress to pass the line-item veto you promised 
that remains. Together with South Korea, we must advance peace talks 
say that it is unusual for a President to pay this kind of attention to 
job placement firms and States to create more jobs for welfare 
conferences and a child's medical checkup. We should pass flex-time, so 
inspection with safeguards for our allies and ourselves.
    Now let me repeat: It's not a loan; it's not foreign aid; it's not a 
Haiti, the dictators are gone, democracy has a new day, the flow of 
demanding that all able-bodied recipients assume the responsibility of 
what they're spending, what they want. We should also curb the role of 
Government that works better and costs less. Thanks to the work of Vice 
those places, but they make our future more confident and more secure.
Governor, for being here. Please stand up. [Applause]
moving from welfare to work. Now each and every one of us has to fulfill 
threat for granted. But it's still there, and we aren't finished yet.
Seattle, 32 percent. But we still have a long way to go before our 
poison gas forever if the Senate ratifies the Chemical Weapons 
harder for less. They have less security, less income, less certainty 
who are out there working every day doing a good job for the American 
decent tenants. From now on, the rule for residents who commit crime and 
the honor to announce tonight that they are the very first of several 
and we can open the airwaves to all candidates.
service and his extraordinary personal heroism. But Richard Dean's story 
race to create new nuclear weapons by signing a truly comprehensive 
to disrupt the peace process. It prohibits financial transactions with 
China playing its proper role in the world is. I will go to China, and I 
makes all year long.
necessity. And over the next decade, that must be our goal.
harder for less. They have less security, less income, less certainty 
threat for granted. But it's still there, and we aren't finished yet.
times. He saved the lives of three women. He's here with us this 
threat for granted. But it's still there, and we aren't finished yet.
first Chinese-American Governor in the history of our country. He's the 
    Thank you, General McCaffrey, for agreeing to serve your country one 
and trust us to help them seek the blessings of peace and freedom. But 
regulations, shifting more decisionmaking out of Washington, back to 
harder for less. They have less security, less income, less certainty 
we wish well tonight and who exhorted us to carry on until the twilight 
    My balanced budget makes an unprecedented commitment to these goals, 
Weapons Convention law, so that at last we can begin to outlaw poison 
from bureaucrats to citizens, injecting choice and competition and 
front lines of that effort. Tonight I am nominating him, a hero of the 
best is yet to come if we all do our parts.
    I know that a lot of you have your own ideas about tax relief, and 
educational opportunities in the last 2 years, from Head Start to public 
bailout. We will be given a guarantee like cosigning a note, with good 
children. I've heard Mrs. Gore say that it's hard to be a parent today, 
    Please stand up. [Applause]
children take up smoking, even though it's against the law. Three hundred thousand of 
opportunities we'll all need for this new century. In our schools, every 
    I know that a lot of you have your own ideas about tax relief, and 
children. I've heard Mrs. Gore say that it's hard to be a parent today, 
    All strong families begin with taking more responsibility for our 
dreams must be realized by our common efforts.
our Capital City, so that Washington is a great place to work and live 
and once again the proud face America shows the world.
    As the new Congress opened its doors, lobbyists were still doing 
believe some basic things. Do you believe we can expand the economy 
ought to make sure that self-employed people in small businesses can buy 
    We face no imminent threat, but we do have an enemy. The enemy of 
for all of us. Our seventh challenge is really America's challenge to 
it does, I'll support it. But if it doesn't, I won't.
Republican and Democratic Members of Congress and already approved by 68 
over 25 years about the importance of families and children, a wonderful 
    Previous Government programs gathered dust. The reinventing 
America. Thank you.Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the 104th Congress, my fellow 
family, and to thank the person who has taught me more than anyone else 
changes in teaching to make, and which schools need to improve. They can 
for their children. When parents control what their young children see, 
changes in teaching to make, and which schools need to improve. They can 
meet these challenges together, as one America?
brought down the cost of home mortgages, car payments, and credit card 
    As all of you know, I was just there with a bipartisan congressional 
easier to borrow and repay those loans, and we have dramatically cut the 
you can get ahead. We've become a great middle class country. Middle 
each and every one of us to get an education and to have the opportunity 
number of new border guards, by deporting twice as many criminal aliens as ever before, 
    Whatever our differences, we should balance the budget now. And 
schools. Last year, I challenged America to connect every classroom and 
rules and regulations to reform their own welfare systems and to try to 
    My fellow Americans, without regard to party, let us rise to the 
    To make the V-chip work, I challenge the broadcast industry to do 
know about the Gulf war. This treaty has been bipartisan from the 
    The ``GI bill'' for workers, tax relief for education and child 
you for it.
jobs over the long run by cleaning the environment up? I know we can. 
peace. Now our troops and a strong NATO, together with our new partners 
    More police and punishment are important, but they're not enough. We 
While more Americans are living better, too many of our fellow citizens 
business as usual; the gifts, the trips, all the things that people are 
allowed to write their own loopholes into bills to weaken laws that 
their waterfronts and clean up pollution in the rivers, proving once 
young people will earn college money by serving their local communities 
an all-time high and record numbers of school buildings falling into 
our people still can't be sure of having a job next year or even next 
it is possible to live and advance together across those kinds of 
decent tenants. From now on, the rule for residents who commit crime and 
real welfare reform a reality in the lives of the American people.
nearly 8 million of these people. We should not do that. We should not 
Haiti, the dictators are gone, democracy has a new day, the flow of 
did last year supports the decline in the crime rate--and I am convinced 
I'm asking the Congress to add $25 billion in defense spending over the 
what movies have done, to identify your program in ways that help 
have got to keep more of our young people out of trouble, with prevention 
    Every diploma ought to mean something. I challenge every community, 
have got to keep more of our young people out of trouble, with prevention 
choices for themselves, their families, and their communities.
tough pollution standards, do it, as long as you do it right. To 
economically, their children do better as well.
    And we must join together to do something else, too, something both 
nobody loses their coverage because they face high prices or unavailable 
air, more pesticides in our food. Lobbyists for polluters have been 
as they go down, prospects for America's future go up.
    These initiatives are right for America, and we should keep them 
these cuts do not undermine our fundamental obligations to our parents, 
Rodgers is a police officer in Oklahoma City. Like Richard Dean, she 
    To prepare America for the 21st century, we must build stronger 
good for America; and a Europe in which all democracies define their 
    I say to those who are on welfare, and especially to those who have 
    I say to those who are on welfare, and especially to those who have 
fully paid for by budget cuts in bureaucracy, cuts in programs, cuts in 
deals for America, over 80 of them, we have opened markets abroad, and 
ashtray you can break on ``David Letterman'' is gone. Deadwood programs, 
    We must challenge businesses and communities to take more initiative 
our fundamental values. The crime rate, the welfare and food stamp 
to resolve them. I am ready to meet tomorrow. But I ask you to consider 
finance reform bill in a generation. You, Republicans and Democrats 
century. Every State and school must shape the curriculum to reflect 
now exports are at an all-time high, growing faster than imports and 
    You know, for years before I became President, I heard others say 
budget in a way that is fair to all Americans. There is now broad 
deals for America, over 80 of them, we have opened markets abroad, and 
on challenges, not promises. And when we work together to meet them, we 
contracts to businesses that hire illegal immigrants.
    That is my plan, a call to action for American education. Some may 
declining, we are winning back our optimism, the enduring faith that we 
you to pass it now.
    Our national service program, AmeriCorps, has already helped 70,000 
young people to work their way through college as they serve America. 
    Our leadership in the world is also strong, bringing hope for new 
prisoners, the mass graves, the campaign to rape and torture, the 
    General McCaffrey has earned three Purple Hearts and two Silver 
    And we stood up for peace in Bosnia. Remember the skeletal 
after hours, on weekends, and in the summer, so our young people will 
when they switch jobs and stop denying coverage for preexisting 
forged our identity, our very Union, from the very point of view that we 
    I have said before, and let me say again, many good ideas have come 
    Our second challenge is to provide Americans with the educational 
discovery of an AIDS vaccine will save millions of lives around the 
Sprint, Monsanto, UPS, Burger King, and United Airlines, will be the 
unemployment and inflation in 27 years. We have completed--created 
First Lady. And they prove that when we aim high and challenge our 
our children, and our future, by endangering Medicare or Medicaid or 
and make our democracy work for them.
fought in World War II, and to all others on both sides of the aisle who 
must never return; in the Middle East, where Arabs and Jews who once 
not safe to drink. We still have much to do.
them. The Congress and I are near agreement on sweeping welfare reform. 
budget in a way that is fair to all Americans. There is now broad 
as were here 20 years ago. The American people look at their Capital, 
America will soon find its words falling on deaf ears all around the 
our country, to balance the budget, renew our democracy, and finish the 
is clearly working. Violent crime is coming down all across America. In 
America's families. Family is the foundation of American life. If we 
the evidence indicates, we bit offmore than we could chew. So I'm asking you
later.
to choose leadership over escapism at the start of the cold war. If 
air, more pesticides in our food. Lobbyists for polluters have been 
it to our country and to our future.
become a new citizen. But we are also a nation of laws.